---
ideaSubmitFormInstruction: '<b>PHASE 2</b>    Phase 2 submitters can include any organization
  or collaboration that is able to widely spread the successful use of the tools recognized
  in Phase 1, and need not have participated in Phase 1. Success will likely require
  partnership with organizations that have significant size and reach - such as specialty
  societies, quality organizations, Regional Extension Centers (RECs), health IT products
  or services vendors - to support the tool dissemination goals. Submitters must demonstrate
  successful use of these tools in at least 2 additional practices.    <strong><a
  title="Green Spring Internal Medicine Tools" href="http://bit.ly/15DWNh3">DOWNLOAD
  GREEN SPRING INTERNAL MEDICINE TOOLS</a></strong>    <strong><a title="Vibrant Health
  Clinics Tools" href="http://bit.ly/1JujwIV">DOWNLOAD VIBRANT HEALTH CLINICS TOOLS</a></strong>    To
  participate in Phase 2, provide documentation describing the elements below. Narrative
  elements must be no longer than 5 pages, not including screenshots, artifacts, or
  worksheets.    a. <b>CDS Tools Spread.</b> Describe which tools from Phase 1 your
  team spread to other practices using the format of the <b>Phase I CDS Intervention
  Details</b>. Describe in detail any modifications that were made to the Phase 1
  version of the tools.    b. <b>Spread Results.</b>  <ul>   <li>Successful implementations:
  Describe the number and nature of practices to which the CDS interventions were
  spread. For each practice, provide details as described in <b>Phase 1 Practice Information</b>.</li>   <li>Blood
  pressure control and process improvements: For each practice and in the aggregate,
  describe the blood pressure control improvements generated by the tools using the
  instructions in <b>Phase 1 Blood Pressure Control Results</b>. If BP control improvements
  have not yet been achieved, provide compelling evidence of significant value to
  the practice(s) and their hypertensive patients from the tool implementation.</li>   <li>Additional
  commitments: Provide evidence about any additional sites that have committed to
  adopt the CDS tools you are spreading but have not yet reached implementation.</li>  </ul>  c.
  <b>Spread Strategy.</b> Describe how you supported successful use of the CDS tools
  in practices. Provide enough detail, such as critical success factors and pitfalls
  to avoid, so that others could replicate it. See Phase 1 items CDS Support Overview
  and Blood Pressure Protocol, and Workflow Integration Details for guidance on providing
  details about protocol/CDS implementation details for individual sites.    &nbsp;    <b>***Submit
  your solution by clicking the "Submit Solution" tab in the upper-right corner and
  following the instructions***</b>    &nbsp;    <b>PHASE 1</b>    A practice implementing
  the protocol must lead the submission. Practices are encouraged to form teams supporting
  their entry that include organizations such as a Regional Extension Center (REC),
  EHR developer, quality organization and/or professional society. Practices must
  demonstrate high blood pressure control levels and/or improvement to ensure that
  their tools and strategies merit replication across other practice settings.    To
  participate in Phase 1, provide documentation describing the elements below. Narrative
  elements must be no longer than 5 pages, not including screenshots, artifacts, or
  worksheets.    <b>*** VIEW THE AUGUST 5 <a href="https://capconcorp.webex.com/capconcorp/lsr.php?RCID=6fe98e1917855df0751bdc8a0a63d2b0">WEBINAR
  RECORDING</a> (<a href="http://oncchallenges.ideascale.com/userimages/accounts/91/917467/EHR_Innovations_Challenge_Transcript.pdf">transcript</a>)
  ***</b>    a. <b><a>Blood Pressure Control Results</a>.</b> Challenge entry requires
  exemplary blood pressure control for hypertensive patients driven by EHR/CDS interventions
  – a practice-wide control rate of at least 70%, and/or a significantly improved
  level from before the enhanced CDS interventions described in the submission were
  deployed (no specific threshold must be met).  <ul>   <li> Hypertension prevalence
  in practice: per cent of patients 18 or older whose diagnosis list includes hypertension.</li>   <li>
  Per cent of patients with hypertension whose blood pressure is controlled (&lt;140/90).
  The specifications used to determine this rate must be the same as that used for
  PQRS #236/NQF #0018 (see the <a href="http://ushik.ahrq.gov/ViewItemDetails?system=mu&amp;itemKey=118811000">US
  Health Information Knowledgebase</a>). Significant improvement over time in BP control:
  Provide the percent of the patient population whose BP rate was improved over a
  specified period. Each submission will be evaluated based on the percent improvement
  and time period but no specific threshold for these must be met.</li>   <li> Per
  cent of the patient population whose blood pressure rate was improved over a specified
  period, the per cent improvement, and the time period, using the specifications
  above for determining the rates.</li>  </ul>  b. <b><a href="http://millionhearts.hhs.gov/resources/protocols.html">Blood
  Pressure Protocol</a> and <a href="http://bit.ly/CDS4MU">CDS Support Overview</a>.</b>
  Describe the CDS interventions and implementation strategies believed to have had
  the greatest effects on BP control. In a narrative, describe the protocol elements
  you addressed and how you used EHR and related CDS interventions to address them
  (we encourage but do not require that you address all five elements):  <ul>   <li>
  BP measurement/recording (e.g., use of documentation templates, highlighting abnormal
  BPs in EHR)</li>   <li> BP follow-up and patient recall (e.g., use of registry
  reports)</li>   <li> Medication selection and titration (e.g., use of order sets)</li>   <li>
  Patient engagement (e.g., use of patient education and goal setting tools, templates
  for documenting and responding to home BP readings, patient reminders for medications/appointments)</li>   <li>
  Workup/referral for poor control (e.g., reference information, hypertension-specific
  consult order forms)</li>  </ul>  c. <b>CDS Intervention Details.</b> For each intervention
  used to implement the blood pressure protocol, provide a detailed description that
  includes, for example, categories and orders within an order set, data entry fields/options
  in a documentation template, rules used to produce data, and report layout for patient
  lists from registries. Screenshots are optional, and you may express the intervention
  using the <a href="http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=337">HL7
  CDS Knowledge Artifact Implementations (“Health eDecisions”) Draft Standard for
  Trial Use</a>. Only submit material for which widespread use is acceptable, without
  payment or limitation. DO NOT submit any propriety material without submitting all
  pertinent permissions (e.g., from EHR vendor) and DO NOT submit any <a href="http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/hipaa/understanding/summary/">protected
  health information (PHI)</a>.    d. <b>Workflow Integration Details.</b> Describe
  how you integrated into the practice and clinical workflow the interventions described
  in the previous section. Provide enough detail so that other practices wanting to
  use the same interventions you have used would experience similar success with them
  in controlling blood pressure. Use both a narrative description and the CDS/Quality
  Improvement worksheets for standard presentation/replication (e.g., similar to QI
  case example within the <a href="http://bit.ly/CDS4MU">CDS/QI resources recently
  provided by ONC</a>; see specifically II.A: CHC Inc. and Ellsworth QI Case Studies).    e.
  <b>Practice Information.</b> Provide information about the lead practice as detailed
  in the "Practice Information" section in Rules.    &nbsp;'
startDate: '2014-07-07T00:00:00'
votingAllowed: false
newCampaign: false
status: closed
commentCount: 0
challenge-id: 94
moderatorAdminOnlyIdeasEnabled: false
funnelId: 4
ideaFromUnauthorizedMemberAllowed: true
tagline: ONC seeks to uncover the practices that have used clinical decision support
  to implement the most successful evidence-based blood pressure treatment protocols.
  ONC will then further reward organizations that can spread these tools for use by
  the most providers.
groupName: Department of Health and Human Services
hideIdeaAuthor: false
template: ideation
campaignAttributes:
attributes:
total-prize-awarded-cash: ''
external-url: ''
submission-end: 10/30/2015 11:59 PM
why-use-prizes: ''
submission-start: 01/23/2015 12:00 AM
fiscal-year: FY14
public-voting-end-date: ''
budget-and-resources: ''
total-prize-offered-cash: '$40,000'
campaign-owner: Adam Wong
public-voting-start-date: ''
legal-authority: America COMPETES
total-number-of-prizes-awarded: ''
evaluation-of-submissions: ''
agency-id: '102'
solicitation-of-submissions: ''
total-submission-received: ''
total-number-of-participant: ''
show-winners-instead-of-prizes: 'No'
estimated-value-of-partner-contributions: ''
non-monetary-incentives-awarded: Up to 4 $5,000 prizes
partner-agencies-federal: ''
judging-end-date: 11/20/2015 12:00 AM
solicitation-methods: ''
advancing-the-agency-mission: ''
rules: "<p><b>KEY DATES</b></p>    <p>Phase 1:    Submission period: July 7-October 6, 2014
  \   Review period: October 7-October 21, 2014    Winners announcement: October
  27, 2014    </p><p>Phase II:    Submission period: January 23-October 23, 2015    Review
  period: October 26-November 9, 2015    Winners announcement: November/December,
  2015    </p><p><b>PRACTICE INFORMATION</b></p><p>    A Practice is defined as the ambulatory
  care organization that has implemented the CDS-enabled hypertension protocol
  addressed in the submission. It can be a solo provider or much larger business
  entity, as long as the blood pressure management approach - and supportive CDS
  tools and their use - are uniform throughout.</p><p>    1. Name/address of practice
  \   2. Practice demographics:  <ul>   <li> Type (e.g., private practice, health
  center, health system)</li>   <li> Number and type of providers</li>   <li>
  Specialty(ies)</li>   <li> Setting (e.g., rural, urban)</li>  </ul>  3. Overall
  practice’s patient population demographics:  <ul>   <li> Size of practice’s
  patient population, including number of unique patients seen in the last year</li>
  \  <li> Hypertension prevalence in patient population</li>   <li> Demographic
  data including: Race/ethnicity (African-American, Hispanic/Latino, Asian, American
  Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian / Other Pacific Islander); Gender; Age;
  Insurance status (Medicaid/CHIP, Medicare, self-pay/uninsured); LGBTI (optional)</li>
  \ </ul>  4. EHR/HIT tools and systems pertinent to BP protocol implementation
  \   5. Quality/HIT support received pertinent to BP protocol implementation;
  e.g., from HCCN, REC, QIO    6. Any co-submitters that supported the practice's
  CDS-enabled hypertension protocol implementation    <br><b>SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS</b>
  \   In order for an entry to be eligible to win this Challenge, it must not
  use HHS’ or ONC’s logos or official seals in the Submission, and must not claim
  endorsement.    <br><b>ELIGIBILITY RULES FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE COMPETITION</b>
  \   To be eligible to win a prize under this challenge, an individual or entity—
  \   <br>(1) Shall have registered to participate in the competition under the rules
  promulgated by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information
  Technology.    <br>(2) Shall have complied with all the requirements under this
  section.    <br>(3) In the case of a private entity, shall be incorporated in and
  maintain a primary place of business in the United States, and in the case of
  an individual, whether participating singly or in a group, shall be a citizen
  or permanent resident of the United States.    <br>(4) May not be a Federal entity
  or Federal employee acting within the scope of their employment.    <br>(5) Shall
  not be an HHS employee working on their applications or submissions during assigned
  duty hours.    <br>(6) Shall not be an employee of Office of the National Coordinator
  for Health IT.    <br>(7) Federal grantees may not use Federal funds to develop
  COMPETES Act challenge applications unless consistent with the purpose of their
  grant award.    <br>(8) Federal contractors may not use Federal funds from a contract
  to develop COMPETES Act challenge applications or to fund efforts in support
  of a COMPETES Act challenge submission.</p><p>An individual or entity shall not
  be deemed ineligible because the individual or entity used Federal facilities
  or consulted with Federal employees during a competition if the facilities and
  employees are made available to all individuals and entities participating in
  the competition on an equitable basis.</p><p>Entrants must agree to assume any
  and all risks and waive claims against the Federal Government and its related
  entities, except in the case of willful misconduct, for any injury, death, damage,
  or loss of property, revenue, or profits, whether direct, indirect, or consequential,
  arising from my participation in this prize contest, whether the injury, death,
  damage, or loss arises through negligence or otherwise.</p><p>Entrants must also
  agree to indemnify the Federal Government against third party claims for damages
  arising from or related to competition activities.</p><p><b>INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY</b>
  \   Ownership of intellectual property is determined by the following:    <br>Each
  entrant retains title and full ownership in and to their submission. Entrants
  expressly reserve all intellectual property rights not expressly granted under
  the challenge agreement.</p><p>By participating in the challenge, each entrant
  hereby irrevocably grants to Sponsor and Administrator a limited, non-exclusive,
  royalty-free, worldwide license and right to reproduce, publically perform,
  publically display, and use the Submission to the extent necessary to administer
  the challenge, and to publically perform and publically display the Submission,
  including, without limitation, for advertising and promotional purposes relating
  to the challenge.    </p><p><b>ADDITIONAL INFORMATION</b></p><p>ONC reserves the right
  to cancel, suspend, and/or modify the Contest, or any part of it, for any reason,
  at ONC's sole discretion.</p><p>ONC is administering this challenge under authority
  of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, Section 105 (15 U.S.C.
  3719).</p>"
submission-start-date-1: ''
hide-challenge-timeline: 'No'
judging-start-date: 11/02/2015 12:00 AM
winners-announced-date: 12/10/2015 12:00 AM
cash-prizes-and-non-cash-prize-awards: ''
campaign-owner-email: adam.wong@hhs.gov
solution-type: Ideas
partner-agencies-non-federal: Million Hearts
original-post-id: '5882'
total-number-of-winners-awarded: ''
hosting: Hosted on this platform
hide-challenge-funnel: 'Yes'
type-of-challenge: Scientific
participation-requirements: ''
number-of-phases: ''
how-to-enter: "<p><b>PHASE 2</b></p><p>Phase 2 submitters can include any organization
  or collaboration that is able to widely spread the successful use of the tools
  recognized in Phase 1, and need not have participated in Phase 1. Success will
  likely require partnership with organizations that have significant size and
  reach - such as specialty societies, quality organizations, Regional Extension
  Centers (RECs), health IT products or services vendors - to support the tool
  dissemination goals. Submitters must demonstrate successful use of these tools
  in at least 2 additional practices.</p><p><strong><a title=\"Green Spring Internal
  Medicine Tools\" href=\"http://bit.ly/15DWNh3\">DOWNLOAD GREEN SPRING INTERNAL
  MEDICINE TOOLS</a></strong></p><p><strong><a title=\"Vibrant Health Clinics
  Tools\" href=\"http://bit.ly/1JujwIV\">DOWNLOAD VIBRANT HEALTH CLINICS TOOLS</a></strong></p><p>To
  participate in Phase 2, provide documentation describing the elements below.
  Narrative elements must be no longer than 5 pages, not including screenshots,
  artifacts, or worksheets.</p><p>a. <b>CDS Tools Spread.</b> Describe which
  tools from Phase 1 your team spread to other practices using the format of the
  <b>Phase I CDS Intervention Details</b>. Describe in detail any modifications
  that were made to the Phase 1 version of the tools.</p><p>b. <b>Spread Results.</b>\r\n<ul>\r\n\t<li>Successful
  implementations: Describe the number and nature of practices to which the CDS
  interventions were spread. For each practice, provide details as described in
  <b>Phase 1 Practice Information</b>.</li>\r\n\t<li>Blood pressure control and
  process improvements: For each practice and in the aggregate, describe the blood
  pressure control improvements generated by the tools using the instructions
  in <b>Phase 1 Blood Pressure Control Results</b>. If BP control improvements
  have not yet been achieved, provide compelling evidence of significant value
  to the practice(s) and their hypertensive patients from the tool implementation.</li>\r\n\t<li>Additional
  commitments: Provide evidence about any additional sites that have committed
  to adopt the CDS tools you are spreading but have not yet reached implementation.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nc.
  <b>Spread Strategy.</b> Describe how you supported successful use of the CDS
  tools in practices. Provide enough detail, such as critical success factors
  and pitfalls to avoid, so that others could replicate it. See Phase 1 items
  CDS Support Overview and Blood Pressure Protocol, and Workflow Integration Details
  for guidance on providing details about protocol/CDS implementation details
  for individual sites.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><b>***Submit your solution by clicking
  the \"Submit Solution\" tab in the upper-right corner and following the instructions***</b></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><b>PHASE
  1</b></p><p>A practice implementing the protocol must lead the submission.
  Practices are encouraged to form teams supporting their entry that include organizations
  such as a Regional Extension Center (REC), EHR developer, quality organization
  and/or professional society. Practices must demonstrate high blood pressure
  control levels and/or improvement to ensure that their tools and strategies
  merit replication across other practice settings.</p><p>To participate in Phase
  1, provide documentation describing the elements below. Narrative elements must
  be no longer than 5 pages, not including screenshots, artifacts, or worksheets.</p><p><b>***
  VIEW THE AUGUST 5 <a href=\"https://capconcorp.webex.com/capconcorp/lsr.php?RCID=6fe98e1917855df0751bdc8a0a63d2b0\">WEBINAR
  RECORDING</a> (<a href=\"http://oncchallenges.ideascale.com/userimages/accounts/91/917467/EHR_Innovations_Challenge_Transcript.pdf\">transcript</a>)
  ***</b></p><p>a. <b><a>Blood Pressure Control Results</a>.</b> Challenge entry
  requires exemplary blood pressure control for hypertensive patients driven by
  EHR/CDS interventions – a practice-wide control rate of at least 70%, and/or
  a significantly improved level from before the enhanced CDS interventions described
  in the submission were deployed (no specific threshold must be met).\r\n<ul>\r\n\t<li>
  Hypertension prevalence in practice: per cent of patients 18 or older whose
  diagnosis list includes hypertension.</li>\r\n\t<li> Per cent of patients with
  hypertension whose blood pressure is controlled (&lt;140/90). The specifications
  used to determine this rate must be the same as that used for PQRS #236/NQF
  #0018 (see the <a href=\"http://ushik.ahrq.gov/ViewItemDetails?system=mu&amp;itemKey=118811000\">US
  Health Information Knowledgebase</a>). Significant improvement over time in
  BP control: Provide the percent of the patient population whose BP rate was
  improved over a specified period. Each submission will be evaluated based on
  the percent improvement and time period but no specific threshold for these
  must be met.</li>\r\n\t<li> Per cent of the patient population whose blood
  pressure rate was improved over a specified period, the per cent improvement,
  and the time period, using the specifications above for determining the rates.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nb.
  <b><a href=\"http://millionhearts.hhs.gov/resources/protocols.html\">Blood Pressure
  Protocol</a> and <a href=\"http://bit.ly/CDS4MU\">CDS Support Overview</a>.</b>
  Describe the CDS interventions and implementation strategies believed to have
  had the greatest effects on BP control. In a narrative, describe the protocol
  elements you addressed and how you used EHR and related CDS interventions to
  address them (we encourage but do not require that you address all five elements):\r\n<ul>\r\n\t<li>
  BP measurement/recording (e.g., use of documentation templates, highlighting
  abnormal BPs in EHR)</li>\r\n\t<li> BP follow-up and patient recall (e.g.,
  use of registry reports)</li>\r\n\t<li> Medication selection and titration
  (e.g., use of order sets)</li>\r\n\t<li> Patient engagement (e.g., use of patient
  education and goal setting tools, templates for documenting and responding to
  home BP readings, patient reminders for medications/appointments)</li>\r\n\t<li>
  Workup/referral for poor control (e.g., reference information, hypertension-specific
  consult order forms)</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nc. <b>CDS Intervention Details.</b> For
  each intervention used to implement the blood pressure protocol, provide a detailed
  description that includes, for example, categories and orders within an order
  set, data entry fields/options in a documentation template, rules used to produce
  data, and report layout for patient lists from registries. Screenshots are optional,
  and you may express the intervention using the <a href=\"http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/product_brief.cfm?product_id=337\">HL7
  CDS Knowledge Artifact Implementations (“Health eDecisions”) Draft Standard
  for Trial Use</a>. Only submit material for which widespread use is acceptable,
  without payment or limitation. DO NOT submit any propriety material without
  submitting all pertinent permissions (e.g., from EHR vendor) and DO NOT submit
  any <a href=\"http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/hipaa/understanding/summary/\">protected
  health information (PHI)</a>.</p><p>d. <b>Workflow Integration Details.</b>
  Describe how you integrated into the practice and clinical workflow the interventions
  described in the previous section. Provide enough detail so that other practices
  wanting to use the same interventions you have used would experience similar
  success with them in controlling blood pressure. Use both a narrative description
  and the CDS/Quality Improvement worksheets for standard presentation/replication
  (e.g., similar to QI case example within the <a href=\"http://bit.ly/CDS4MU\">CDS/QI
  resources recently provided by ONC</a>; see specifically II.A: CHC Inc. and
  Ellsworth QI Case Studies).</p><p>e. <b>Practice Information.</b> Provide information
  about the lead practice as detailed in the \"Practice Information\" section
  in Rules.</p>&nbsp;"
partnerships: ''
groupAttributes:
judging-criteria-description-0: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-0: ''
judging-criteria-0: 'Phase 2: Number of practices in which the CDS interventions
  were implemented, or implementation is underway'
judging-criteria-description-1: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-1: ''
judging-criteria-1: 'Phase 2: Number of practices expressing interest in replicating
  the CDS implementation'
judging-criteria-description-10: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-10: ''
judging-criteria-10: ''
judging-criteria-description-11: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-11: ''
judging-criteria-11: ''
judging-criteria-description-12: ''
judging-criteria-12: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-12: ''
judging-criteria-description-13: ''
judging-criteria-13: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-13: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-14: ''
judging-criteria-14: ''
judging-criteria-description-14: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-15: ''
judging-criteria-15: ''
judging-criteria-description-15: ''
judging-criteria-16: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-16: ''
judging-criteria-description-16: ''
judging-criteria-17: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-17: ''
judging-criteria-description-17: ''
judging-criteria-description-18: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-18: ''
judging-criteria-18: ''
judging-criteria-description-19: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-19: ''
judging-criteria-19: ''
judging-criteria-description-2: Absent clear blood pressure control improvements,
  demonstration of compelling evidence that CDS tool implementation has made a
  positive impact on blood pressure care processes and/or that blood pressure
  control improvements are likely.
judging-criteria-2: 'Phase 2: Demonstrated blood pressure control improvements'
judging-criteria-percentage-2: ''
judging-criteria-description-3: ''
judging-criteria-3: 'Phase 2: Comprehensiveness and innovation in supporting blood
  pressure protocol elements with CDS tools'
judging-criteria-percentage-3: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-4: ''
judging-criteria-4: 'Phase 2: Capacity for the CDS implementation-spreading strategy
  to be used outside the challenge'
judging-criteria-description-4: _______
judging-criteria-percentage-5: ''
judging-criteria-5: 'Phase 1: Blood pressure control (less than 140/90) among
  hypertension patients'
judging-criteria-description-5: 'This will be measured in blood pressure control
  rate (must be the same as that used for PQRS #236/NQF #0018) and/or  blood pressure
  control rate improvement (percentage point increase in BP control rate over
  a specified time). Submissions will be evaluated based on the percent improvement,
  but no specific threshold must be demonstrated.'
judging-criteria-6: 'Phase 1: Comprehensiveness and innovation in addressing the
  protocol elements using EHRs or other health IT'
judging-criteria-percentage-6: ''
judging-criteria-description-6: ''
judging-criteria-7: 'Phase 1: Description of tool and its implementation detailed
  enough to be replicated'
judging-criteria-percentage-7: ''
judging-criteria-description-7: ''
judging-criteria-description-8: For example, a high degree of customization that
  makes it harder for others to replicate would result in a lower score.
judging-criteria-percentage-8: ''
judging-criteria-8: 'Phase 1: Ease with which others could implement the tool/approach'
judging-criteria-description-9: ''
judging-criteria-percentage-9: ''
judging-criteria-9: ''
prize-description-0: Phase 2 will have a single winner of a $30,000 prize. Honorable
  Mention designations will be given for other Phase 2 submitters with commendable
  CDS tool dissemination and implementation strategies.
prize-cash-amount-0: '30000'
prize-name-0: Phase 2
prize-description-1: Phase 1 will have up to 4 winners, each of whom will receive
  a $5,000 prize. Other Phase 1 submitters who provide CDS tools that reviewers
  select for dissemination efforts during Phase 2 will receive non-monetary recognition
  (e.g., Honorable Mention). Phase 1 practices may be recognized in different
  categories (e.g., practice type, size) based on the submissions received.
prize-cash-amount-1: '5000'
prize-name-1: 'Phase I Winner #1'
prize-cash-amount-10: ''
prize-name-10: ''
prize-description-10: ''
prize-cash-amount-11: ''
prize-name-11: ''
prize-description-11: ''
prize-name-12: ''
prize-cash-amount-12: ''
prize-description-12: ''
prize-name-13: ''
prize-cash-amount-13: ''
prize-description-13: ''
prize-description-14: ''
prize-cash-amount-14: ''
prize-name-14: ''
prize-description-15: ''
prize-cash-amount-15: ''
prize-name-15: ''
prize-description-16: ''
prize-name-16: ''
prize-cash-amount-16: ''
prize-description-17: ''
prize-name-17: ''
prize-cash-amount-17: ''
prize-cash-amount-18: ''
prize-name-18: ''
prize-description-18: ''
prize-description-2: ''
prize-name-2: 'Phase I Winner #2'
prize-cash-amount-2: '5000'
prize-description-3: ''
prize-name-3: ''
prize-cash-amount-3: ''
prize-cash-amount-4: ''
prize-name-4: ''
prize-description-4: ''
prize-cash-amount-5: ''
prize-name-5: ''
prize-description-5: ''
prize-name-6: ''
prize-cash-amount-6: ''
prize-description-6: ''
prize-name-7: ''
prize-cash-amount-7: ''
prize-description-7: ''
prize-description-8: ''
prize-cash-amount-8: ''
prize-name-8: ''
prize-description-9: ''
prize-cash-amount-9: ''
prize-name-9: ''
winner-solution-description-0: In an effort to apply for the Phase II award, we
  designed our own challenge titled “GreensSpringMed Hypertension Challenge” and
  invited practices in our PCMH pilot, practices who participate in our ACO, practices
  who are affiliated with the QIN-QIO in Maryland and Virginia, and those affiliated
  with the Department of Health and Hygiene in Maryland. We initiated the challenge
  in April 2015 (see attached flyer) and asked that each practice design and implement
  their own evidence-based hypertension control protocol. Thirteen practices expressed
  intent to participate in the challenge (listed in attachments). We held monthly
  webinars from April through October where we disseminated our strategy and tools
  (specifically CDS tools and registry use) and discussed various barriers and
  successes practices were experiencing in implementing these tools in their respective
  practices. During the challenge, a number of practices came up with their own
  CDS innovations. All of the webinars were recorded and resources were uploaded
  to an online shared workspace.
winner-solution-link-0: ''
winner-name-0: Green Spring Internal Medicine
winner-solution-title-0: GreensSpringMed Hypertension Challenge
winner-solution-link-1: ''
winner-solution-description-1: Vibrant Health Family Clinics, previously River
  Falls, Ellsworth and Spring Valley Medical Clinics, has worked diligently over
  the past few years to improve the care we provide to patients with chronic disease.
  Our focus has been not only on patients exclusively with hypertension but those
  that have multiple co-morbidities, including Diabetes and Ischemic Vascular
  Disease. Saving the lives of our patients by helping them learn about healthy
  lifestyle changes, good nutrition, setting goals, caring about themselves and
  adjusting medications is something we take great pride in. We have been Million
  Hearts Champions twice over the past two years. We started our improvement work
  with one clinic site and moved our interventions into our other two clinic sites,
  maintaining excellent blood pressure control for all patients with hypertension
  at a rate of 76% based on NFQ 0018 report data from July 31, 2013-August 28,
  2014. We have actively shared our work with other clinical sites, most recently
  a clinic from Chippewa Falls, WI which is located about 50 miles away. Our work
  has also allowed us to be in a national collaborative group, the LEAP learning
  community, with a focus on creating a toolkit for other clinics looking to improve
  patient care.
winner-name-1: Mary Boles, Christopher Tashjian, Roseanne Matzek, Vibrant Health
  Family Clinics
winner-solution-title-1: On Our Way to Saving a Million Lives
winner-solution-description-2: 'Our practice was nominated by the Maryland Department
  of Health and Mental Hygiene to submit this innovation which is based upon three
  interventions: registry use to identify high-risk patients, DASH diet recommendation,
  and patient self-monitoring protocols which are facilitated by automation within
  the EHR.'
winner-solution-link-2: ''
winner-solution-title-2: EHR-Driven Practice Improvement – Hypertension Control
winner-name-2: Holly Dahlman, Green Spring Internal Medicine, LLC
winner-solution-link-3: ''
winner-solution-description-3: ''
winner-solution-title-3: ''
winner-name-3: ''
winner-name-4: ''
winner-solution-title-4: ''
winner-solution-description-4: ''
winner-solution-link-4: ''
winner-name-5: ''
winner-solution-title-5: ''
winner-solution-link-5: ''
winner-solution-description-5: ''
winner-solution-title-6: ''
winner-name-6: ''
winner-solution-description-6: ''
winner-solution-link-6: ''
winner-solution-title-7: ''
winner-name-7: ''
winner-solution-link-7: ''
winner-solution-description-7: ''
winner-solution-description-8: ''
winner-solution-link-8: ''
winner-name-8: ''
winner-solution-title-8: ''
winner-solution-link-9: ''
winner-solution-description-9: ''
winner-name-9: ''
winner-solution-title-9: ''
memberIdeaSubmissionAllowed: false
showTitle: true
description: '<p>The goal of the EHR Innovations for Improving Hypertension Challenge
  is to gather specific descriptions of health IT tools and approaches used by individual
  practices to implement an evidence-based blood pressure (BP) treatment protocol
  that has led to improvement in practice-wide blood pressure control (Phase 1), and
  identify models for quickly and widely spreading these to other practices (Phase
  2). </p><p>A comprehensive clinical decision support (CDS) approach supports these <b>five
  protocol elements</b>:  <ul>   <li>1. Blood pressure measurement/recording</li>   <li>2.
  Blood pressure follow-up</li>   <li>3. Initiation and titration of medications</li>   <li>4.
  Patient engagement</li>   <li>5. Workup/referral for poor control</li>  </ul>  </p><p>In
  Phase 1 (three months), practices will document the electronic health record (EHR)
  tools they used to implement an evidence-based BP control protocol, as well as describe
  the details and results of the implementation. Practices must demonstrate high BP
  control levels and/or improvement to ensure that tools and strategies merit replication
  across practice settings.    </p><p><b>*** VIEW THE JANUARY 23 WEBINAR MATERIALS: RECORDING (<a
  href="http://bit.ly/1DikMeM">Download</a>, <a href="http://youtu.be/vy8NfnmIbbI">YouTube</a>) |
  <a href="http://bit.ly/1HtxtuV">SLIDES</a> ***</b>    <br><strong><a title="Green Spring
  Internal Medicine Tools" href="http://bit.ly/15DWNh3">DOWNLOAD GREEN SPRING INTERNAL
  MEDICINE TOOLS</a></strong>    <strong><a title="Vibrant Health Clinics Tools" href="http://bit.ly/1JujwIV">DOWNLOAD
  VIBRANT HEALTH CLINICS TOOLS</a></strong>    </p><p>In Phase 2 (nine months), practices
  and their partners will conduct, evaluate and document dissemination strategies
  for tools recognized in Phase 1, emphasizing widespread, effective use of these
  tools by other practices. Submitters must demonstrate successful use of these tools
  in at least two additional practices.    Phase 1 will have up to four winners, each
  of whom will receive a $5,000 prize. Phase 2 will have a single winner of a $30,000
  prize. Honorable Mention designations will be given for other Phase 1 submitters
  who provide CDS tools that reviewers select for Phase 2 dissemination efforts, and
  for other Phase 2 submitters with commendable CDS tool dissemination and implementation
  strategies. Both phases will recognize submitters in different categories such as
  practice type and size, based on the submissions received.    </p><p><b>***Submit your
  solution by clicking the "Submit Solution" tab in the upper-right corner and following
  the instructions***</b></p>'
campaignStatusName: Launched
templateId: 0
stageStatistics: []
summaryEnabled: false
voteCount: 0
ideaTabEnabledForChallenge: true
moderatorAdminOnlyIdeasNotificationEnabled: false
hideCommentAuthor: false
authorizedGroupIds: []
userSubscriptionAllowed: false
bannerImage: ''
groupId: 23
showTagline: true
challenge-title: EHR Innovations for Improving Hypertension Challenge
privateCampaign: true
ideaCount: 0
memberIdeaAttachmentAllowed: false
authorEdit: false
permalink: "/challenge/ehr-innovations-for-improving-hypertension-challenge/"
layout: json-page
---